# Trigger

A trigger is a method call that is triggered by the system without a need for an external call.

Triggers are implemented similarly to regular transaction and generate a receipt, however their they do not require a signed client transaction.

The trigger transactions calls the trigger contract post message. Each virtual chain may define the post message as desired. 

## Trigger Transaction
* protocol_version = protocol version
* virtual_chain_id = virtual_chain_id
* timestamp = block.timestamp
* signer = empty
* contract_name = `triggers`
* method_name = `blockPost`
* input_argument_array = empty
* signature = empty

## Flow

#### Participant Services
* `ConsensusContext` - Generates and validates the trigger transaction. Remove trigger transactions from ordering validation by the `TransactionPool`.
* `TransactionPool` - Identifies trigger transactions and ignore them on commit. 

#### Trigger Transaction Generation

* If the `triggers` contract is deployed and the trigger transaction is generated by the `ConsensusContext` as part of `RequestNewTransactionsBlock`.

#### Trigger Transaction Validation

* If the `triggers` contract is deployed verify that a trigger transaction presence and validity as by the `ConsensusContext` as part of `ValidateTransactionsBlock`.
* If the the `triggers` contract is not deployed, verify that no trigger transaction in the block.

#### Trigger Transaction Ignore on Commit

* The `TransactionPool` ignores trigger transactions received as part of `CommitTransactionReceipts` and does not add them to the committed pool.
